---
layout: post
title: Photocatalytic foil for H2 production
description: Collection of energies
image: assets/images/Fig1.png
nav-menu: true
---

We are facing a global energy crisis. Since the industrial revolution, our energy consumption is increasing every year. In order to cope with the increasing amount of energy consumption, we need to build a sustainable energy system in various ways. We already receive a large amount of energy from the sun, and we are able to convert it into electricity. However, the storage of energy is an ongoing challenge. Furthermore, because alternating current power plants must continue to produce energy at night, more energy is wasted during this time, when power consumption is relatively low. If we can efficiently store this wasted energy, we can expect to increase the amount of energy available to us by more than a quarter of what we currently produce. The idea proposes energy storage through hydrogen production based on a device that converts wasted energy into hydrogen by photocatalysis.

TiO2 is a well-known semiconductor, which absorbs UV-Vis light and can split water to produce hydrogen. To increase the efficiency of the electron separation process, Platinum is used as a co-catalyst according to the same principle as in diodes. However, these photocatalysts (Pt@TiO2) are mostly used as suspended powders, which requires separation from the reactants when used. Due to this arduous process, the use of such powdered catalysts is unsuitable for industrial scale application. In order to increase the utilization of these photocatalysts, they have to be immobilized, e.g. in form of a film or foil. The photocatalyst foil uses an UV-LED array as a light source for high hydrogen production form an aqueus solution contain ethanol. Since only the hydrogen is the main compound in the gas phase, there is very little risk of explosion through the “Knall-gas” reaction with oxygen, and it provides a simpler hydrogen storage system. The catalyst is 99% TiO2, which is one of the most used ingredients in sunscreen and water purification. In addition, if the polymer used in the foil is a biopolymer. Therefore, photocatalysts which are replaced after use are harmless to nature.

Photocatalysts can use sunlight to produce hydrogen, but in countries far from the equator, like Germany, the lack of sunlight reduces the efficiency of photocatalysts. On the other hand, power generated through wind, which blows continuously at day and night, can be expected to double its efficiency through energy storage (hydrogen production). In addition, if the energy generated through alternating current at night can be stored, it is expected that the usable energy volume can be increased by about 30%. During nighttime, when electricity consumption is low, the photocatalyst is activated by illumination with UV-LEDs and produces hydrogen. The hydrogen produced during the night is stored, and subsequently converted into electricity through a hydrogen generator to supply electric energy to the consumers’ houses (as shown in Figure 2). In this business plan, an
energy producer will be able to provide more reliable and affordable energy to consumers through the proposed energy storage system. In addition, the energy producer will benefit by storing about 30% of its energy each day.
